CISC 472 Assignment 1
Due Tuesday, February 11 before class

Modify the a1.m MatLab skeleton code as follows:

  1. In 'parallelSinogram', compute the sinogram using parallel rays.
     Do this efficiently by using imrotate() to rotate the image so that
     its x axis aligns with the parallel ray direction before you add up
     the attenuations along each ray.

  2. In 'backproject', compute the backprojection from a sinogram.  You
     can use 'repmat' to duplicate a sinogram row over many columns of a
     matrix, and use 'imrotate' to align the backprojection of each row
     of the sinogram with the image in which you accumulate the
     backprojections.

  3. In 'applyFilter', implement convolution.  This is double nested
     loop.  Be sure to check that your indices i-j+offset do not exceed
     the array bounds.

  4. In 'iterativeReconstruction', implement iterative reconstruction.
     Each iteration handles a particular angle and should update the
     image for ALL RAYS at that particular angle.  As before,
     'imrotate' is useful.

Answer the following questions:

  A) How does the Ram-Lak filtered backprojection perceptibly differ
  from the Shepp-Logan filtered backprojection?  You might (or might
  not) have to use fewer angles to see a difference.

  B) What is a good 'numTheta' for filtered backprojections, at which
  point adding more angles does not perceptibly improve image quality?

  C) Why does the backprojected image have a circle around everything?

  D) For iterative reconstruction, how could you take advantage of the
  fact that the subject is entirely within a circle?

  E) Your backprojection images might have a different overall
  brightness than your iterative reconstruction images.  If so, why
  does this occur?

To submit:

  Create a directory called 'a1'.

  In that directory put these files:

    a1.m       - your MatLab code

    image.png  - a screen capture of your output

    README.txt - a file with the name, netID, and student number of
                 each member of your group (maximum 2).  Also include
                 any comments for the TA who will mark this.

    answers.txt - a TEXT or PDF or WORD file with your answers A-E.
    answers.pdf
    answers.docx

  Create a zip archive of the DIRECTORY a1, not of the individual
  files.  Name the archive a1.zip

  Submit the archive by email to jstewart@cs.queensu.ca.
